---
layout: textonly
title: "The Imaging Resource Center"
categories :
  - "one"
---

In 2001 Professor Dan Bailey, a senior faculty member in the Department of Visual Arts, recognized that the world was about to experience an explosion of innovation in digital communications and visualization technologies.

UMBC’s [Imaging Research Center][IRC], the IRC, which Professor Bailey directed, was ideally positioned to explore these emerging digital and communications technologies and bring the power of these innovations to the work he and other faculty were pursuing in their teaching and research.

At the time, however, the IRC had funding only for a few students, one staff member and the director’s position held by Professor Bailey. This team was sufficient to work on one project at a time, but hardly enough to reach the IRC’s full potential. Professor Bailey turned to the Deutsch Foundation for help.

Initial funds from the foundation allowed Professor Bailey to develop a strategic plan for the IRC as a roadmap to guide its development over the next five years. The plan provided a clear view of how to build a research program for exploring the new methods in digital imaging, image capture and display, and interactive web applications that we were just over the horizon, not yet available commercially, but with tremendous potential to transform the way people learn, work and communicate.

This missing ingredient to reach this potential was the most important component in the plan: the human resources sufficient for launching multiple research projects and innovative applications. The IRC needed more people with exciting ideas and the expertise to pursue this work.

The next round of funding from the Deutsch Foundation supplied the seed capital for Professor Bailey to recruit and support these additional staff. His proposal outlined how new hires funded by the foundation would transition over to sustained research funding generated by the IRC as their new initiatives attracted grant support from other sources. Over the next ten years, successive rounds of funding from the foundation have enabled Professor Bailey and his senior team to build a thriving research center, full of people working on a variety of interdisciplinary research projects, and serving the university and the regional economy.

Professor Bailey notes: “A lot has been written about the importance of innovation and how difficult it is to create an environment that supports people to take risks, experience failures, learn from them and go on to successful new discoveries. The Robert W. Deutsch Foundation, whose founder understood innovation from the inside, has worked with us to build a center with a deep culture of innovation, and to leverage their support as we have built out our reputation and external grant support.”

[IRC]: http://www.irc.umbc.edu/

