---
title: BIOFAB
tags :
  - 'technology and something or other'
  - 'single project'
  - 'foundation'
  - 'spruce up grant'
---

Researchers at the University of Maryland are creating microscale "living laboratories" to investigate biochemical reaction pathways, and "biological nanofactories" capable of initiating communications between bacteria in a major, multi-disciplinary research program in biofabrication.

Their work is part of the emerging field of nano-scale biotechnology that aims to create new technologies for the development of drugs, for the detection of disease and the delivery of therapeutics within living organisms.

In 2006 Professor William Bentley and his colleagues, Professors Gary Rubloff, Reza Ghodssi, and Greg Payne envisioned the launch of a new research program focused on controlling biology at the nanoscale. Such a program would require their collective expertise in bioengineering, electrical engineering, material science and nanotechnology to design, build and test new devices that would function as "labs on a chip" and as microelectronic devices that monitor cellular activity.

To bring the research programs in their individual laboratories together, they needed a large cohort of graduate students and post-doctoral researchers dedicated to biofabrication research and development. But support for additions to their research teams would have to come from outside the university.

To solve this problem, the team sought support from the Deutsch Foundation for post-doctoral and graduate fellowships to work with them in their "biofab" research programs and collaborate across their respective disciplines. The foundation was asked to supply "early stage" support for these fellows so that they and their faculty mentors could build out a base of research that could attract larger grants from federal agencies and other funders.

Over the past five years, the research results and published papers of these faculty collaborators and their graduate and postdoctoral students have elevated their research program in biofabrication to the forefront of the field in the United States. Dollars supplied by the Deutsch Foundation have been doubled, tripled and quadrupled as the senior faculty and their research fellows have garnered ever-increasing recognition in the field and support for their work.
